Soft Turquoise Turtle

Medium

# stakingRewards reward rate can be dragged out and diluted

## Summary
stakingRewards reward rate can be dragged out and diluted
## Vulnerability Detail
 function notifyRewardAmount(uint256 reward) external override onlyRewardsDistribution updateReward(address(0)) {
        if (block.timestamp >= periodFinish) {
            rewardRate = reward / rewardsDuration;
        } else {
            uint256 remaining = periodFinish - block.timestamp;
            uint256 leftover = remaining * rewardRate;
            rewardRate = (reward + leftover) / rewardsDuration;
        }

## Impact
The StakingRewards.notifyRewardAmount function receives a reward amount and extends the current reward end time to now + rewardsDuration. It rebases the currently remaining rewards + the new rewards (reward + leftover) over this new rewardsDuration period. This can lead to a dilution of the reward rate and rewards being dragged out forever by malicious new reward deposits.

Imagine the current rewardRate is 1000 rewards / rewardsDuration.

20% of the rewardsDuration passed, i.e., now = lastUpdateTime + 20% * rewardsDuration.

A malicious actor notifies the contract with a reward of 0: notifyRewardAmount(0).

Then the new rewardRate = (reward + leftover) / rewardsDuration = (0 + 800) / rewardsDuration = 800 / rewardsDuration.

The rewardRate just dropped by 20%. This can be repeated infinitely. After another 20% of reward time passed, they trigger notifyRewardAmount(0) to reduce it by another 20% again: rewardRate = (0 + 640) / rewardsDuration = 640 / rewardsDuration.
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-06-makerdao-endgame/blob/main/endgame-toolkit/src/synthetix/StakingRewards.sol#L144C4-L163C6
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
The rewardRate should never decrease by a notifyRewardAmount call. Consider not extending the reward payouts by rewardsDuration on every call. periodFinish probably shouldn't change at all, the rewardRate should just increase by rewardRate += reward / (periodFinish - block.timestamp).

Alternatively, consider keeping the rewardRate constant but extend periodFinish time by += reward / rewardRate.