Proud Porcelain Antelope

High

# Acquiring large amounts of MKR via leverage allows to unfairly utilize it

## Summary

In the LockstakeEngine it's possible to lock and utilize large amounts of MKR through leverage by looping.

## Vulnerability Detail

If a user locks (deposits) MKR into LockstakeEngine, draws (takes a loan of) DAI, converts it back into MKR (e.g. using a Uniswap pair), and locks that MKR back, they achieve leverage by looping these operations.
Considering `mat` in Ilk of LockstakeEngine to be set to a reasonable value of ~150%, max leverage can be estimated as $LEV = \sum\limits_{i = 0}^{\infty} \frac{1}{1.5^i} = \frac{1}{1 - \frac{1}{1.5}} = 3$. So for each real MKR a user initially has, they can get about 3 MKR locked in LockstakeEngine, and use that locked MKR for VoteDelegate and Farm.
In common cases of leverage, the user only gains these 2 extra MKR "on paper" and therefore is unable to use them in any way, except for being more exposed to the price movements.
However, in our case the user will be able to loop and gain 3x leverage on locked MKR, which they can use in both VoteDelegate and Farm.

## Impact

Users who utilize leverage:
1) will have three times more voting power than intended, which allows them to gain a majority of the voting power while initially holding just a portion of the MKR. Let’s say that some user has 17% of total amount of MKR participating in voting. Through leverage, they will gain 51% locked in LockstakeEngine, while other users combined only have 49%, making that user the majority holder of voting power. This leads to our user being able to execute any spell they would like to. For example, they could transfer all tokens that the PauseProxy holds to their own address, which totals to about 170 millions of USD, as of August 5th, 2024, while 17% of MKR participating in voting totals to about 43 millions of USD, as of August 5th, 2024.
2) will receive farming rewards, that are three times larger, at the expense of other users, leading to a loss of funds for those users.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-06-makerdao-endgame/blob/main/lockstake/src/LockstakeEngine.sol#L260-L272
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-06-makerdao-endgame/blob/main/lockstake/src/LockstakeEngine.sol#L287-L295
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-06-makerdao-endgame/blob/main/lockstake/src/LockstakeEngine.sol#L309-L313
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-06-makerdao-endgame/blob/main/lockstake/src/LockstakeEngine.sol#L382-L389

## Tool Used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Don't allow user to draw (take a loan), while he has active VoteDelegate or Farm.
This change ensures the user is unable to use locked MKR gained by leverage for unfair voting or Farm.