Unique Pistachio Chipmunk

High

# Wrong access control for LockstakeEngine.freeNoFee() opens the door for urn owners to avoid paying ```tax```.

### Summary

LockstakeEngine.freeNoFee() should have the auth modifier to allow authorized access to enable promotion for free withdrawl. Howeve, the modifier is urnAuth(urn), therefore, the url owner can always call this function to free mkr from LockstakeEngine without paying any fee. There is no need to call other free functions, which will charge a fee. 

I believe the intended design is to use ``auth`` instead of ```urnAuth(urn)``` as the modifier to enable promotion, etc. Now this function opens the door for urn owners to avoid paying "tax". 

This attack can be replayed indefinitely, therefore, I mark this as *HIGH*

### Root Cause

LockstakeEngine.freeNoFee() has the wrong modifier ```urnAuth(urn)``` instead of ```auth```. 

[https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-06-makerdao-endgame/blob/dba30d7a676c20dfed3bda8c52fd6702e2e85bb1/lockstake/src/LockstakeEngine.sol#L354-L358](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-06-makerdao-endgame/blob/dba30d7a676c20dfed3bda8c52fd6702e2e85bb1/lockstake/src/LockstakeEngine.sol#L354-L358)

### Internal pre-conditions

None.

### External pre-conditions

None

### Attack Path

The owner of an urn can simply call ```LockstakeEngine.freeNoFee()```  to free mkr without paying any fee. The owner will never call other free versions which needs to pay for a fee.  

### Impact

The system will loss fee for withdrawal always since nobody will call other versions of free functions. They will always call ```LockstakeEngine.freeNoFee()``` to avoid the fee. 

### PoC

An owner for a urn simply can call ```LockstakeEngine.freeNoFee()``` to avoid any fee.

### Mitigation

Change modifier from ```urnAuth(urn)``` to ```auth```. 