Raspy Daffodil Wasp

Medium

# Attackers can prevent liquidation

### Summary

locker by calling `LockstakeEngine.lock` causes `onKick -> VoteDelegate.free` to fail. This leads to the failure of liquidation.

### Root Cause


onKick -> _selectVoteDelegate -> VoteDelegateLike(prevVoteDelegate).free(wad) -> chief.free(wad) -> require(block.number > last[msg.sender])

`onKick` will eventually call `chief.free`. If `chief.lock` is called, the call to `chief.free` will fail in the same block, so `onKick` will fail.

If `onKick` cannot be called, the liquidation fails.

https://etherscan.io/address/0x0a3f6849f78076aefadf113f5bed87720274ddc0#code

```solidity
    function lock(uint wad) public note{
@>   last[msg.sender] = block.number;
        GOV.pull(msg.sender, wad);
        IOU.mint(msg.sender, wad);
        deposits[msg.sender] = add(deposits[msg.sender], wad);
        addWeight(wad, votes[msg.sender]);
    }

```


`reserveHatch` prevents `VoteDelegate.lock` from being called multiple times, but the attacker can still call it in a certain time interval.

When block.number > hatchTrigger + HATCH_SIZE and block.number < hatchTrigger + HATCH_SIZE  + HATCH_COOLDOWN

If liquidation occurs at this point, the user can avoid liquidation by calling the `lock` function.

The liquidation was not carried out in time, and if the price continued to fall it would result in the loss of user funds.

`LockstakeEngine.lock` can be called by anything, and an attacker can call this function by locking a small number of tokens.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-06-makerdao-endgame/blob/dba30d7a676c20dfed3bda8c52fd6702e2e85bb1/vote-delegate/src/VoteDelegate.sol#L98

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-06-makerdao-endgame/blob/dba30d7a676c20dfed3bda8c52fd6702e2e85bb1/lockstake/src/LockstakeEngine.sol#L426


### Internal pre-conditions

1. The user needs to be liquidated


### External pre-conditions

1. block.number > hatchTrigger + HATCH_SIZE and block.number < hatchTrigger + HATCH_SIZE  + HATCH_COOLDOWN

### Attack Path

The attackers found out that someone was going to be liquidated.
The attacker uses `front-runnig` to invoke `LockstakeEngine.lock` before `onKick` is invoked.
The `onKick` call fails and the attacker prevents himself from being liquidated.
The attack may fail depending on the value of the `hatchTrigger`, but it can also be successful in 1 block or 20 blocks(HATCH_COOLDOWN = 20).

### Impact

Causes a liquidation failure within the time limit allowed by hatchTrigger. Failure to settle in a timely manner may result in a loss of the funds (asset prices continue to fall)

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Allow the clearing module to call `chieft.free` without relying on `hatchTrigger` checks.